Hi, my name is Shamont Leggette, and
today we're in Austin Texas with
Roadtrip Nation. The three of us are at
South by Southwest EDU to talk to some
professionals and gain some insight
about where they are today. And we're so
excited to be here.
Hi, I'm Ava. I'm a senior, and I Sorry,
I keep looking at the camera. It's okay.
Don't worry.
I'm a little bit nervous because this is
like my first interview.
Hi, I'm Allison. I'm currently a junior.
Leaving high school, I feel wary because
I don't know how I'm going to fare in
the adult world.
The biggest thing I would want to talk
to them about is just like where to
start cuz I feel like everyone's journey
is different, and I just want to be able
to learn something from them. Come on
in.
You want to go here? Yes.
Turn around so that they can see.
I wanted to get started and ask you
about your story. Did you have any
moments where you were doubtful? Well, I
will say my pathway was anything but
linear. I was actually born in India,
and I moved to rural Kentucky when I was
a teenager. My parents always said to me
like, "Go to college. Go to college. Go
to college." But they didn't go to
college, and so I didn't really know
what I was looking for or looking at. I
came to Washington after Barack Obama
was elected. I was a lawyer on his first
campaign, and then I ended up working
for Michelle Obama and Barack Obama
trying to inspire young people to go to
college. But the reality is I didn't
know that those are the things I wanted
to do in high school. There's so many
people I've met in my life who were
like, "Oh, I didn't know this is where
I'm going to land." But when I think
about my own journey, I really do think
it was like the connection or the
thread, as they call it, that runs
through all of it is like people. You
mentioned there were some like struggles
throughout your way. How did you
overcome those obstacles? So, when I was
in high school, I became houseless at
14. So, we didn't call it that when I
was young. We called it couch surfing.
So, I just kind of couch surfed my way
to my high school diploma.
My mom sacrificed a lot to make sure
that I had access to education. And so,
for me, there was a lot of pressure. I
had to succeed. I had to get a degree.
I'm oldest of three. My younger sister
has epilepsy and throughout her
childhood, it was difficult for her to
have the supports necessary to thrive.
So, my goal is like, whatever I do in
life is like to ensure there's greater
access and opportunity. When people see
me in my position and they read my
title, they would be really surprised to
know the journey that I've had to get to
where I am today. And I think that's a
good thing. I think one of the most
durable skills that I think a human
being can bring into the workforce today
is represented by the human being who's
had to overcome anything. So, I'm the
victim of a violent crime and there's
nothing in the criminal legal system
that helps victims heal. It's not set up
to do that. And so, you have to try to
figure out how to make your way through
life on your own. I was using drugs and
alcohol a lot and I got arrested for
drunk driving and I went to jail. And I
came out of that experience feeling like
people are living a different version of
the world than I even realized existed.
So, that's how I got into prison work is
that I went to jail and it changed my
life. It's interesting to hear
everyone's stories and backgrounds,
things that you probably would have
never expected. Having someone so great
be right in front of you, it feels kind
of surreal. But, at the end of the day,
they're also just people and they also
had the same obstacles and struggles. If
there was one piece of advice you'd give
to me, what would it be? Like, tell my
kids all the time, like, you are who you
are. You have a story, let that be sort
of central to the decisions you make and
the things that you do. No matter which
path you take, it's understanding what
are you really good at and then how do
you transfer those skills to any new
spaces as you're growing as an
individual. Anytime you have a learning
opportunity, even if it seems like it's
something totally unrelated, pick it up,
learn it, dive in. You have no idea what
you're going to need in the future. I
feel almost refreshed being able to talk
to all of these people that had so many
different pathways to get to where they
are today. It just kind of reminds me
that everything will work out in the
end. I was so scared to do anything cuz
it's just like, like what if it doesn't
go well or like I jump in and it's just
like I can't get out.
>> Listen, nothing is forever. I mean, for
real, how I got here is not a straight
line and I didn't go to high school
thinking I can't wait to go to jail one
day. That was not the plan. But who
cares what the plan was? Like, the plan
was to make a difference and if that is
your motivating principle, the right
answers will reveal themselves.
It was really interesting to hear how
everyone got to the position they're in
today. Kind of puts in perspective for
me. If you have that drive to do
something, you'll also have the courage
to achieve your end goal. This Richard
Branson experience was so amazing. I got
to meet different people, different
parts of the world, different cultures,
different like ideas, which was so nice.
Being able to learn about them and like
understand where they came from is
really important for my career.